# Movie Recommender System

Use data from [MovieLens](https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/) dataset to create a movie
recommender system. Per MovieLens's terms, I have not uploaded their datasets, but the data is
freely available on their website.

## Data Preprocessing

Load data and perform preprocessing necessary for recommender system. Save preprocessed data to
save time.

Files:
- **preprocess_movie_data.py**: Load csv files with movie data and perform preprocessing.
	- Convert genres listed in single column to several columns, each containing a dummy variable
	for one genre
	- Compile rating data, computing a mean raw rating across users as well as a weighted rating
	as used by IMDb.
	- Compile user-assigned tags into a single column, with each cell containing a soup of tags
	assigned to a given movie.
	- Extract the movie's year from the title column, and create a "clean" title (lowercase,
	starting "A" and "The" removed) to make searching more fool-proof.
	- Save preprocessed data to `movies_processed.csv`.
- **preprocess_tag_genome_data.py**: Load csv files with genome tags and perform preprocessing.
	- Generate dataframe of tag data, with each column representing a tag and each row representing
	how relevant each tag is to a given movie.
	- Create list of tags with a relevance score of at least 75% for each movie.
	- Save preprocessed data to `tag_genome_preprocessed.csv`.

## Exploratory Data Analysis

Visualize relationships within and between variables in dataset, including genres and ratings.

Files:
- **movies_EDA.py**: Plot features of movie dataset.
	- Analyze movie genres:
		- Barplot of genre counts.
		- Barplot of number of genres assigned to each movie.
		- Heatmap of correlations between genres assigned to movies.
	- Analyze movie ratings:
		- Histogram of number of ratings assigned to each movie.
		- Histograms of mean raw ratings and weighted ratings across movies.
		- Scatterplot of weighted ratings vs. mean raw ratings.
- **Exploratory-Data-Analysis.ipynb**: Collection of figures generated by movies_EDA.py.

## Movie Recommenders:

Two movie recommenders are implemented. First, a simple recommender returns the titles of the
highest-rated movies. Second, a content-based recommender allows the user to search for movies
similar to an input title. Both recommenders allow filtering by genre(s) and/or tag(s) before
returning the highest-rated movies or finding similar movies.

Files:
- **search_movie_data.py**: Perform all functions needed by movie recommender.
	- Filter movie dataframe by genre or list of genres.
	- Filter movie dataframe by tag or list of tags.
	- Search for movie by title. If no single exact title match, looks for near matches by
	computing Levenshtein distance ratio and asking user to select between top options.
	- Find highest-rated movies in a dataframe.
	- Return most relevant tags for a given movie.
	- Find similar movies to a target movie.
- **Simple-Recommender.ipynb**: Recommender that returns titles of highest-rated movies in given
genre(s) or with given tag(s).
- **Content-Based-Recommender.ipynb**: Recommender that returns similar titles based on
user-assigned tags or genome tags.

**Note**: This is my first time using git through the command line, so please bear with me if things don't look right quite yet.
